= reverse_geocoder

* http://github.com/billeisenhauer/reverse_geocoder

== DESCRIPTION:

Ruby gem containing production-quality reverse geocoding client service.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Supported reverse geocoders:

- Google
- Geonames
- Numerex
- GeoPlugin
- iBegin

Failover support provided through the Multi reverse geocoder which is built to
respect an order preference.  

Exception handling to support query limits exceeded.

== INSTALL:

	sudo gem install reverse_geocoder

== USAGE:

$ ReverseGeocoder::Google.geocode(32.921943,-96.951299, :sensor => true)
=> {:geocoder=>"Google", :country_code=>"US", :country_name=>"USA", 
    :address=>"8500 Wellington Point Dr, Irving, TX 75063, USA"}    

Where the return is a Hash and the :address can be used as needed.  

Some exception handling is performed to enable detection of query limit
issues.  In those cases, rescue ReverseGeocoder::QueryLimitExceeded.

Other exceptions are below, but see the RDOC for more info:

- ReverseGeocoder::AuthenticationError
- ReverseGeocoder::UnknownServiceError
- ReverseGeocoder::UnavailableAddress
- ReverseGeocoder::MalformedRequest
 

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Bill Eisenhauer

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.